[Music]
no matter how you
feel about cats you're gonna find this
one interesting
the unfunny reason why cats hate
cucumbers
now i'm sure you've all seen the memes
gifts and videos of cats
literally leaping into the air in fright
at the sight of a cucumber
[Music]
hey i used to do that at the site of
brussels sprouts
now this can look outright hilarious to
us humans and it seems so random that an
animal
related to the ferocious king of the
jungle would be so scared of a simple
fruit
[Music]
so what's the deal anyway
why do cats find cucumbers so repulsive
that their initial reaction is to
scamper away when they see one
well we're as puzzled as you are so
let's see what
experts have to say about this cat
versus cucumber phenomenon
but before we get into the science
behind your kitty's fear of the dreaded
cucumber
be sure to click that subscribe button
and turn on the notification bell
so that you'll always be the first to
see all the informative and insightful
videos
coming out daily on the bright side of
life
so it usually goes like this a pet owner
will quietly place once the cat turns
around
and notices this strange green elongated
thing
lying there on the ground it'll either
jump up in fear and run away
or stand there in wide-eyed amazement at
the fruit
the especially brave kitties will even
engage in a nudging battle with it
we get our kicks out of watching this
whole thing go down but
what's going through a cat's brain
during all of this
don't forget that cats are basically
miniature lions
that sometimes show dominance
impulsiveness and a bit of neuroticism
like my neighbor
[Music]
it's natural for this stealthy creature
to be suspicious
which is sometimes mistaken as being
curious of their surroundings
especially in an unfamiliar environment
[Music]
domestic cats even though you always
find them lounging on top of a bookshelf
or dozing on your couch are still highly
skilled predators
and always in a state of heightened
alert when they hunt for their prey
they're wary of flashing lights ah the
infamous
laser dot noisy toys and any moving
items before them and they're not really
afraid of us human since
in the words of dr john bradshaw a
biologist at england's university of
bristol who studied cat behavior for 30
years
our feline friends only think of their
owners as
a larger dumb non-hostile cat
or to make it less offending a mama cat
[Music]
so why on earth are they such scaredy
cats when it comes to cucumbers
animal experts aren't quite sure they
have a few theories
but they all agree that cats aren't
petrified of the cucumber itself
certified animal behavior specialist dr
roger mugford
puts it down to simply being caught off
guard during a moment of vulnerability
remember a lot of these pet owners sneak
up on them when they're eating
which is when a lot of creatures whether
human or animal
feel most relaxed and place the cucumber
behind their back
[Music]
so just imagine if someone snuck up on
you from behind
while you were blissfully having a meal
of course you'd be startled
and probably not by the person
themselves if you know them at least
but just by the mere unexpectedness of
it all
another theory is that cats mistake
cucumbers for snakes
the feline's true mortal enemy other
than dogs
maybe according to dr constantine
slobochikov
an animal behaviorist and professor at
northern arizona university
the long green shape of a cucumber looks
enough like a snake
to have the cat's instinctive fear of
the reptile kick in
our feline companions are hardwired to
avoid these
slithering beings at all costs because
well
snakes can kill ah your cat's not quite
as dumb as you thought
[Music]
whether it's because of the fear of the
unknown or a phobia of snakes it's still
not a good idea to pull the cucumber
prank on your poor kitty
actually the same goes for bananas
pineapples or
fake spiders they can evoke the same
strong reaction
simply put cats are not used to being
caught off guard
again especially when they're eating and
have their guard down
startling them for fun can do some
serious damage on their psyche
you're basically tricking them into
thinking there's a deadly predator or
danger nearby
which causes them psychological harm and
stress
[Music]
of course i know you don't want that for
your fur baby
but once again let's take it from the
experts
dr slobochikov says it can inflict
psychological trauma
not only because of the cucumber but
also the places where the green invader
was presented to them
according to the pet care site vet
babble it can lead to anxiety
aggressive behavior and even ptsd
[Music]
cat behavior consultant dr michael
delgado explains that if
cats feel threatened particularly at
their food stations
they can lose their appetite and when
cats don't eat
they can develop life-threatening fatty
liver disease
[Music]
cats love to be in control they're a
creature of habit
so they can become distressed when their
human changes their routine or does
something
unpredictable based on a study conducted
by the college of veterinary medicine at
the ohio state university
cats may exhibit sickness behaviors in
response to unusual external events
like the infamous cucumber stock
the common sickness behaviors are
vomiting refusing to eat
diarrhea and urinating outside the
litter box
[Music]
marilyn krieger a certified cat behavior
consultant
points out other symptoms that your cat
might be suffering from stress
[Music]
they're more clingy to you or other
members of the household
or the exact opposite they hide from or
avoid all contact with you
again they have problems using the
litter box
they develop psychogenic alopecia or
over
grooming that leads to hair loss
they eat non-edible items like socks
plastic bags wood or rubber
[Music]
they vent feelings on your other pets if
you have any
or other people they demonstrate nervous
jumpy or skittish behavior
furthermore they may injure themselves
break something
or become more stressed
[Music]
our furry feline buddy is a sensitive
being
which is why you should be a considerate
pet owner
you don't want your kitty to distrust
you or feel on
edge in their own home so be a
responsible and caring mama cat
by gradually introducing new items such
as cucumbers to them
let them study it at a safe distance and
get familiarized with the object on
their own terms
instead of shoving it in their face or
behind their back
[Music]
yes it's certainly amusing and
entertaining to watch those cat versus
cucumber or
cat not like banana videos and have a
good laugh
[Music]
since cats unlike their canine
counterparts are models of being cool
calm and collected
seeing them go out of character is a
rare and funny sight to behold
[Music]
but try to put yourself in their shoes
or pause that
is and think how would i react and feel
if someone scared the heck out of me
over and over again in my own home
[Music]
what may seem like innocent fun could be
considered
animal cruelty if you think about it
and while that might be true that not
all cats hate cucumbers
it's still not a valid reason to
experiment this trick on them
even for the sake of science
so please don't scare your poor kitties
and speak up
when you see someone else doing it to
theirs
which of these scientific explanations
of cat's cucumber phobia do you think is
true
and how do you feel about all those
videos online showing this sort of thing
tell us in the comments below don't
forget to give this video a like if you
enjoyed it
and get the message out there by sharing
it with your friends
hit that subscribe button to stay on the
bright side of life
you